The PCE Working Group is chartered to specify the required protocols 
so as to enable a Path Computation Element (PCE)-based architecture 
for the computation of paths for MPLS and GMPLS Point to Point and 
Point to Multi-point Traffic Engineered LSPs. Further, the PCE WG 
also handle protocol extensions for new path setup types of Segment 
Routing (SR), BIER, and Detnet.


In this architecture path computation does not necessarily occur on 
the head-end (ingress) LSR, but on some other path computation entity 
that may not be physically located on each head-end LSR. The TEAS 
Working Group is responsible for defining and extending architectures 
for Traffic Engineering (TE) and it is expected that the PCE and TEAS 
WGs will work closely together on elements of TE architectures that 
utilize PCE.


The PCE WG works on the application of this model within a single 
domain or within a group of domains (where a domain is a layer, IGP 
area or Autonomous System with limited visibility from the head-end 
LSR). At this time, applying this model to large groups of domains such 
as the Internet is not thought to be possible, and the PCE WG will not 
spend energy on that topic.


The WG specifies the PCE communication Protocol (PCEP) and needed 
extensions for communication between Path Computation Clients (PCCs) 
and PCEs, and between cooperating PCEs. Security mechanisms such as 
authentication and confidentiality are included.


The WG works on the mechanisms for inter-domain as well as multi-layer 
path computation and PCEP extensions for communication between several 
domains or network layers.


The WG defines the required PCEP extensions for Wavelength Switched 
Optical Networks (WSON) and Flexible Grid while keeping consistency 
with the GMPLS protocols specified in the CCAMP and TEAS WGs.


Work Items:


- PCEP extensions to support MPLS and GMPLS Traffic Engineered LSP 
  path computation models involving PCEs. This includes the case of 
  computing the paths of intra- and inter-domain TE LSPs. Such path 
  computation includes the generation of primary, protection and 
  recovery paths, as well as computations for (local/global) 
  reoptimization and load balancing. Both intra- and inter-domain 
  applications are covered.


- In cooperation with the TEAS Working Group, development of PCE-
  based architectures for Traffic Engineering including PCE as a 
  Central Controller (PCECC). The PCEP extensions are developed in 
  the PCE Working Group.


- In cooperation with protocol specific Working Group (e.g., MPLS, 
  CCAMP), development of LSP signaling (RSVP-TE) extensions required 
  to support PCE-based path computation models.


- Specification of PCEP extensions for expressing path computation 
  requests and responses in the various GMPLS-controlled networks, 
  including WSON and Flexible Grid.


- Definition of PCEP extensions for path computation in multi-layer 
  and inter-domain networks.


- Definition of the PCEP extensions used by a stateful PCE for 
  recommending a new path for an existing or new LSP to the PCC/PCE.
  Further protocol extensions must cover the case where receiving 
  PCC/PCE chooses to not follow the recommendation.


- Definition of the PCEP extensions for SR-MPLS and SRv6 paths as per 
  SR Policy architecture in cooperation with SPRING Working Group.


- Definition of the PCEP extension for new path setup types (such as 
  BIER and DETNET) in close cooperation with the respective Working 
  Groups. 


Milestone


* July 2023 Submit PCEP YANG Model as a Proposed Standard
* July 2023 Submit PCEP SRv6 extension as a Proposed Standard
* Dec 2023 Submit PCEP extensions for SR Policy and Multipath
* July 2024 Submit Enhancements to Stateful PCE
* Evaluate WG progress, recharter or close